Authentication via OAuth2

OAuth2 can be used as authentication method for e-mail accounts in CAS genesisWorld. At the moment, Microsoft Exchange online is supported as OAuth2 provider. As only this provider is currently supported, only settings for this provider are available.

The administrator defines the necessary settings for the authentication method in the Management Console.

OAuth2 can be defined both in the wizard when creating an e-mail account and also in the properties of an existing e-mail account.
Defining the authentication method for e-mail accounts

    When setting up an e-mail account using the wizard, the setup of the authentication method is performed on the Server information for the e-mail account page.

    Configuring e-mail accounts

    In the e-mail account properties, this is done on the E-mail server information tab.

    E-mail account properties

    In both cases, you have to select the OAuth2 enter from the Password authentication drop-down list.

After having completed the set up of an e-mail account with the wizard and/or when closing the properties of an e-mail account, the registration page of the e-mail account is opened at the OAuth2 provider.

Registering with the OAuth2 provider can be skipped and all settings for an account can still be saved.

Whether a valid authentication of the user exists on the OAuth2 provider side is checked during access via an e-mail account. With the CAS genesisWorld e-mail client, this is done, for example, when displaying e-mails, opening e-mail views or with e-mail rules on the server.

The administrator can or cannot set e-mail accounts and the default account for users. Depending on the settings of the administrator, users can or cannot set up e-mail accounts or a default account themselves and, if necessary, change predefined accounts.

    If the administrator sets up your e-mail account for you, you can therefore change passwords retroactively via the OAuth2 service provider.

You can also change your passwords if you are not allowed to create or change e-mail accounts in CAS genesisWorld.

    If you do not define an authentication in the e-mail account wizard or the account properties, you can also define the authentication when accessing the e-mail account for the first time.

You can also change the authentication method if you are not allowed to create or change e-mail accounts in CAS genesisWorld.
Authentication via Microsoft Exchange Online

After you have clicked Finish in the e-mail account wizard, saved the settings, or used an IMAP account in CAS genesisWorld for the first time, the default browser opens on the Microsoft Exchange Online logon page.

    Log on using your Microsoft Exchange Online account.

Authentication occurs via the transmission of so-called tokens. After logon, you will receive a hint informing you whether the OAuth2 authentication has been successful.

After the authentication, you can access e-mails and the following functions of the e-mail account:

    creating e-mail views,
    displaying e-mails in folders in the navigator,
    server-side e-mail rules,
    sending e-mails,
    sending e-mail campaigns and time-delayed e-mail campaigns,
    sending invitations to appointments, and
    the out of office wizard.

The authentication can fail for two reasons: either no refresh token is available or the refresh token is no longer valid.

    In this case, the default browser opens on the Microsoft Exchange Online logon page as soon as you access the e-mails and functions of the e-mail account.
